I know it's hard to believe but
sometimes in your right code you don't
just want to send it to the autograder
and then immediately forget it ever
existed often you want to actually share
that code so we could be used by other
programmers or users so in order to do
that you would need to somehow give your
dot Java files or your doc class files
out to the world and even for a
medium-sized project that could be
dozens of dot class files now for this
ones it's easy I'd only have to
distribute these two class files in
order for someone to use this mostly
useless Oh Josh H - animal package but
for a lot of projects they could be much
bigger so what we're gonna do is use
something known as a doc jar file we're
gonna create one and it basically acts
as a bundle of a bunch of different
class files you can share as a single
file and then someone can import them
into IntelliJ or sorry specify them as a
library and so with one single file you
can end up having one or even many
packages all at once at your fingertips
so in order to do this in order to
create a jar file I'm gonna use IntelliJ
there are other ways to do it there's
other command-line tools but this is the
easiest way and the one that we'll
recommend you use for this class so I'm
just gonna follow these directions on
the slides which I wrote and I'll go to
in this case file project structure so
we've used file project structure before
to get libraries into our IntelliJ
environment and there's this case we
would actually in this case we already
gave you some jar files that you would
be adding using libraries so now we're
doing the other thing where we're going
to create the jar files themselves so
that other people could add them to
their library later so to do this after
doing file project structure I'm going
to collect artifacts jar from modules
with dependencies and then I get this
little window and in this dialog I'm
just gonna click OK twice ok you could
do more stuff but that's what we're
gonna do so after you've done this
you've specified a particular artifact
you'd like IntelliJ to build so I'll
click build in this case build artifacts
build again and now it cranks along and
does something ok so actually what it
just did
is if I go now to my computer and I see
what actually got produced then in the
production this out folder there's now
something called artifacts
and if I go in there there's now a file
called live jar so once I've built an
artifact I have live jar in this case
the version I did in the slides was
packaged m'hona
jar same idea and at that point you can
give this jar file to someone else who
can then use it as a library for that
program their programs now one thing I
want to mention is that jar files are
actually just zip files and we can go to
live jar and I can put in the zip yes
and I can open live dot zip and now I
see that it's actually just those class
files so nothing here happened that was
very magical now occasionally jar files
have a little extra meta information but
the main point here is that when you
give at a jar file you are giving out
your class files and as it happens it's
very easy to take a class file and turn
it back into a Java file so it does not
make your code safe to distribute if you
want to keep your ideas safe your
program safe keep it safe from reverse
engineering making a jar file is not
enough and similarly if you're in this
class and I don't know you have a friend
who's stuck and you give them a jar file
of your code thinking well they can't
like just copy my code right actually
they can if they know what they're doing
it will take somebody who has Google
skills maybe I don't know five minutes
six minutes to figure out how to do this
maybe try it out yourself kind of fun so
just be aware jar files don't keep you
safe that's it for jar files really
though we do want to mention one more
thing you'll notice it's a little
annoying
and IntelliJ to always do things like
okay project structure libraries or
artifacts or whatever else and setting
up all of these kind of meta project
ideas is a bit of pain and so there
exists something known as a build system
that automates that kind of process it
does more I'm not really gonna talk
about it much in class but there's a
bunch of build systems out there like
ant maven Gradle which seems to be
getting very popular and these can be
really useful for big teams big projects
where you don't want to have to write
out a bunch of directions like we do in
the labs it's like go to file project
structure yadda yadda in that case you
can provide a file that automates all
that stuff in 61 be our projects and our
and our homeworks are just not quite big
enough to really justify this but we
will use maven and project three at
least
than the spring 2017 semester so that's
it for jar files so let's move on to
some other exciting's and tactical thing